doc/test_environment.md, before:

# Test environment 
Our test environment is Raspberry Pi 3 with Raspberry Pi Camera V2.1 and distance sensor HC-SR04.

# Configuration
Take a note that to make changes (like changing branch) you need to run the command as `superuser`.
To make it be you need to type `su pi` (and execute this command) after that you will be asked to input password.
Use our password (you can get it from the dev team).

## Remote terminal
We are using `Dataplicity` for remote access to test environment.
If you want to have access to Raspberry Pi for test purposes send your email address and request to be added to [Jędrzej Polaczek](https://github.com/jedrzejpolaczek).

## Nginx Website
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.
* Gain access to remote terminal.
* To start `nginx` website just type `sudo service nginx restart`.
* To check if it works type `sudo netstat -an | grep LISTEN | grep :80` or visit website `https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/vnc.html`
* To stop `nginx` just type `sudo systemctl stop nginx`

## Remote desktop
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.
* Gain access to remote terminal.
* Use command: 

`sudo /opt/remote_desktop/start`

* On success you should see screen like this:
    
![Success start remote desktop](/doc/images/success_run_remote_desktop.png)

## Stream live video from Pi
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.
* Gain access to remote terminal.
* Use command:

`sudo ./mjpg_streamer -i "./input_uvc.so -f 10 -r 640x320 -n -y" -o "./output_http.so -w ./www -p 80"`

* On success you should see screen like this:
    
![Success start live stream](/doc/images/success_run_live_stream.png) 




# Usage
Take a note that to make changes (like changing branch) you need to run the command as `superuser`.
To make it be you need to type `su pi` (and execute this command) after that you will be asked to input password.
Use our password (you can get it from the dev team).

## Remote terminal
To access test environment terminal visit website: 

`https://www.dataplicity.com/devices/5bc41fb9-ba63-4516-800a-c79969d3a526/`

## Repository
Repositories are under the path: 

`home/pi/Workplace/ai-smart-mirror` 

`home/pi/Workplace/ai-mask-model` 

## Nginx Website
To access test environment website visit website: 

```https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/```

Take a note that `nginx website` must be running to make it possible.

## Remote desktop
Go to the website: 

`https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/vnc.html`

You should see screen like this:
    
![Login to remote desktop](/doc/images/login_remote_desktop.png)

Use our password (you can get it from the dev team). 

Now you have access to remote desktop of test environment.

Take a note that `Remote access to desktop` must be running to make it possible.

## Remote live stream
To access test environment camera remote live stream visit website: 

```https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/stream_simple.html```

Take a note that `remote live stream` must be running to make it possible.

## Raspberry Pi camera
### Making photo
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.

To make o photo just use command:

`raspistill -o your_photo_name.jpg`

New file under the name `your_photo_name.jpg` appear in the directory from where you execute the command.


## Troubleshooting
### Port unavailable
* Use command `sudo netstat -tunlp`
* Check what making port (default it is port 80) unavailable.
* Most of the time it will be nginx. Just shout it down by using command `sudo systemctl stop nginx`
* You may check the status of nginx if it stopted by typing `sudo systemctl status nginx`

### Live stream
In case of any trouble you may need to repeat whole configuration procedure from `https://www.instructables.com/Stream-Live-Videos-From-Your-Pi-on-the-Internet/`

Commit message:

Distance sensor module test script (#12)
* feat: implementation of test for HC-SR04.

* fix: replace spaces with tabs.

* fix: replace spaces with tabs.

* fix: replace spaces with tabs.

* fix: replace spaces with tabs.

* fix: resolve reivew issues.

* fix: tabs/spacebars in code.

* fix: change folder structure.

* fix: minor format issues.

* feat: added finall block to main function.

doc/test_environment.md, after:

# Test environment 
Our test environment is Raspberry Pi 3 with Raspberry Pi Camera V2.1 and distance sensor HC-SR04.

# Configuration
Take a note that to make changes (like changing branch) you need to run the command as `superuser`.
To make it be you need to type `su pi` (and execute this command) after that you will be asked to input password.
Use our password (you can get it from the dev team).

## Remote terminal
We are using `Dataplicity` for remote access to test environment.
If you want to have access to Raspberry Pi for test purposes send your email address and request to be added to [Jędrzej Polaczek](https://github.com/jedrzejpolaczek).

## Nginx Website
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.
* Gain access to remote terminal.
* To start `nginx` website just type `sudo service nginx restart`.
* To check if it works type `sudo netstat -an | grep LISTEN | grep :80` or visit website `https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/vnc.html`
* To stop `nginx` just type `sudo systemctl stop nginx`

## Remote desktop
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.
* Gain access to remote terminal.
* Use command: 

`sudo /opt/remote_desktop/start`

* On success you should see screen like this:
    
![Success start remote desktop](/doc/images/success_run_remote_desktop.png)

## Stream live video from Pi
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.
* Gain access to remote terminal.
* Use command:

`sudo ./mjpg_streamer -i "./input_uvc.so -f 10 -r 640x320 -n -y" -o "./output_http.so -w ./www -p 80"`

* On success you should see screen like this:
    
![Success start live stream](/doc/images/success_run_live_stream.png) 

## Distance measurment
Current solution is using ultrasonic sensor HC-SR04 to measure distance. 
Trigger PIN: 7 (on board) \ 4 (GPIO)
Echo PIN: 17 (on board) \ 17 (GPIO)


# Usage
Take a note that to make changes (like changing branch) you need to run the command as `superuser`.
To make it be you need to type `su pi` (and execute this command) after that you will be asked to input password.
Use our password (you can get it from the dev team).

## Remote terminal
To access test environment terminal visit website: 

`https://www.dataplicity.com/devices/5bc41fb9-ba63-4516-800a-c79969d3a526/`

## Repository
Repositories are under the path: 

`home/pi/Workplace/ai-smart-mirror` 

`home/pi/Workplace/ai-mask-model` 

## Nginx Website
To access test environment website visit website: 

```https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/```

Take a note that `nginx website` must be running to make it possible.

## Remote desktop
Go to the website: 

`https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/vnc.html`

You should see screen like this:
    
![Login to remote desktop](/doc/images/login_remote_desktop.png)

Use our password (you can get it from the dev team). 

Now you have access to remote desktop of test environment.

Take a note that `Remote access to desktop` must be running to make it possible.

## Remote live stream
To access test environment camera remote live stream visit website: 

```https://colorless-havanese-8101.dataplicity.io/stream_simple.html```

Take a note that `remote live stream` must be running to make it possible.

## Raspberry Pi camera
### Making photo
All commands you need to type in remote terminal.

To make o photo just use command:

`raspistill -o your_photo_name.jpg`

New file under the name `your_photo_name.jpg` appear in the directory from where you execute the command.

## Distance sensor HC-SR04
### Measure distance
Just run script from `src/sensors/sensors_tests/HC-SR04/HC-SR04_simple_test.py`

## Troubleshooting
### Port unavailable
* Use command `sudo netstat -tunlp`
* Check what making port (default it is port 80) unavailable.
* Most of the time it will be nginx. Just shout it down by using command `sudo systemctl stop nginx`
* You may check the status of nginx if it stopted by typing `sudo systemctl status nginx`

### Live stream
In case of any trouble you may need to repeat whole configuration procedure from `https://www.instructables.com/Stream-Live-Videos-From-Your-Pi-on-the-Internet/`
